(logo whooshing)
In this video,
we're gonna be doing the add to cart functionality.
And this is actually where we're going to get
into writing custom mutations,
because, in order to create a cart item,
we have an API for that.
If we go to our GraphQL API Explorer here,
we could write a mutation that is called createCartItem,
and then we would give it link to both the user,
the product and the quantity that we have.
The issue that we run into here is that,
if you add an item to your cart
and then you add that same item to your cart again,
it shouldn't create two separate cart items.
It should just update the existing one
to have a quantity of one more.
And that type of custom logic that we need,
needs to go into a custom mutation.
And this is really great
because, if you have some sort of code
that needs to go past what the default is in Keystone,
you can just add your own mutation resolvers,
which is really cool.
So, what we're gonna do is,
we'll open up our keystone.ts on our backend.
And there is a property
on this list here called extendGraphQLSchema.
So, basically take the existingGraphQLSchema,
take all of this stuff
and then add in either my own queries,
my own types or my own methods.
So, we will go down here actually,
and we got to create it first.
So, we're gonna go into our mutations folder
and I'll make a new file called index.ts.
And then in here,
we will export const extendGraphQLSchema
is equal to graphQLSchemaExtension.
That is a method that is imported from Keystone.
And then inside of there,
we have typedefs
and we will have a secondary, we'll have resolvers.
So, type definitions are exactly this.
If you take a look here,
the type definition is what is the name of the method?
What arguments does it take?
And what does it return?
And then the resolvers,
is just links to no jazz functions that will run
when those things are requested upon
via the GraphQL API.
So, we have that in that,
let's do typedefs first.
So, typedefs is just going to be a string
that is some GraphQL.
So, we'll say type mutation and some curly brackets.
And the first one that we are going to do,
we will have two in this course,
we have addToCart and checkout.
So, we'll do addToCart first,
addToCart when we're adding an item,
it takes in a productId
which has a type of Id,
and then it will return a CartItem.
Now like, why is this green like this?
It's kind of annoying.
Normally, what we do is we type like GQL or GraphQL
and we get this really nice highlighting,
but in our case we just need to give it a raw string.
So, that's kind of annoying,
because, we don't get the really nice syntax highlighting.
So, I'm gonna show you a little bit of a hack,
because, VS Code will highlight things
tagged with GQL or GraphQL.
We can actually make our own little fake syntax highlighter.
So, here we go,
make a fake GQL,
or what's called GraphQL,
tagged template literal.
So, it's just this const GraphQL
is equal to capital S String.raw.
And String.raw will take in a tag template literal,
which are these back ticks
and just return the text that's inside the quotes.
So, very, very simple.
And then watch this.
Now we can say GraphQL
and we get these really nice syntax highlighting.
We've got a little bit of red here
and that is because property resolvers is missing.
Good, okay, well, we can do that next.
So, underneath here,
we'll say resolvers
and that will be a mutation underneath there.
And then for each one,
we'll say, addToCart will be a function.
And then the custom code goes here.
So, let's just console.log ADD TO CART.
So, let's go back here.
We got to kill our backend and start it up again.
And once that's done,
refresh your GraphQL Explorer.
And now that this is loaded,
we can take a look at our schema
and owner our schema at docs
and we should see, add to no, not in there.
Okay, why?
We wrote all this code,
but we actually forgot to tell Keystone about it.
So, we need to go back to our Keystone
and embed it right here
amongst all of the config options of Keystone.
So, what did we call that?
It was called extendGraphQLSchema.
The reason why we called it that,
is because the property is called extendGraphQLSchema.
And then the variable is gonna be also be called that.
Let's go and import that from our index.
And then it just makes a property value
that is exactly the same.
Now, if we restart it,
our schema should have access to that add to area,
look at this.
So, now we have our custom mutation addToCart.
It takes in a productId
with a type of Id and returns a CartItem.
And then it knows,
because we already have a type of CartItem
in our GraphQL schema.
It already knows that addToCart item has an Id,
a quantity and a link to product and a user.
See how beautiful that is,
to be able to make your own custom resolvers.
And you can just go ahead and do that.
Now, I like to code the stuff behind these customers solvers
in their own file,
each mutation in its own file,
cause they can get rather large.
So, what we'll do is,
we'll go into our mutations folder here,
make a new file called addToCart
capital T capital C dot ts.
And we'll export default function, addToCart.
And that takes a couple arguments.
First one is a route, which has a type of any.
Then we also do structure the productId
which is going to be a String.
So, I'll just type it right here.
The productId is going to have a type of String.
And then we have context
and that is gonna have a type of KeystoneContext.
We'll have to import that,
boom that auto imports from Keystone next types.
Now, we have to open our function here
and we'll say console.log, ADDING TO CART.
Then we can go here
and just remove this method.
And auto import that function.
It's not importing function addToCart if we do this.
Export default addToCart.
I bet if we do it like that,
it will auto import.
Nope, all right, that's okay,
we'll import it.
Import addToCart from addToCart.
Okay, so we have our mutation addToCart,
when that runs,
it will run this function right here.
So, if we get again we've got to kill
and restart the process
anytime we make changes to this.
But when we do run that,
we should be able to code up our own mutation here.
So, mutation addToCart,
takes in a productId of abc123,
and will return the Id, the quantity, all that good stuff.
So, it will probably error out
because we're not actually returning a value,
but it should at least say,
ADDING TO CART in the console here.
So, I'll clear out my console, run it,
boom, ADDING TO CART.
It returns null cause that value doesn't return anything,
but we are in good shape.
We can also do a little bit of TypeScript typing
to say that,
okay this function we've typed the things that it takes in,
but also you need to type what it's returning, right?
And we already know
that it's returning a cart item right here.
And luckily for us,
Keystone generates all the types based on our schemas.
So, we can say here,
it will return a CartItem.
And I believe it is create input.
You see when that auto imported itself,
it says CartItemCreateInput.
You see that it links off to the schema types.
And if you click through to that,
you can see there's tons and tons of types in here
that describe everything is in there.
And there's not just like a regular CartItem,
but there is CartItemCreateInput,
which has the quantity
which is an Integer or nothing.
And then links to products and users
which could be associated content.
So, that one will work for us.
The other thing is,
is that this is we're gonna be using
a little bit of sync await inside of this.
So, this needs to be marked as a sync.
And the return value is not a CardItem.
The return value is a promise,
and then this is a promise
that will eventually return a CartItem.
So, wow!, now inside of here,
we need to do I think five things.
Let's write a little bit of pseudo code.
First, we need to query the current user
and see if they're signed in.
Second, we need to query the current users cart.
Three, we need to see if the item that they're adding
is already in their cart,
because if it is,
then we have to just increment it by one.
And if it isn't,
we have to create a whole new cart item.
So three, see if the current item
is in the cart.
Four, and maybe in depth this one,
if it is increment by one,
and if it isn't,
create a new CartItem.
All right, so, first thing,
query the current user and see if they're signed in.
So, how do you tell if somebody is signed in?
Well, we got this context right here
and on that context, you've got context dot,
you can see on the context they give is,
they give you GraphQL.
They give you actually the instance of your Keystone,
a whole bunch of different methods
and all the lists that you have.
But one thing that they give you is the session.
So, I'll make a new variable,
say const sesh is equal to context.session.
And for some reason it is typing it as any.
So, in this case,
I'm probably just cause of Keystone types
haven't been updated.
But we can type it as Session, capital S Session here.
And what that will do is it will import it from our types.
And then if we take a look at our sesh,
you see that the value is now being a sesh.
So, we can say if the sesh.ItemId,
if there is no session ItemId,
meaning that if there is no user currently logged in,
we'll just throw a new error,
that says you must be logged in to do this.
Otherwise, we're going to query the current users carts.
Let's say, const allCartItem is equal to await
and we'll take that context
and we can grab the lists
and we can grab the cart item off of that,
and say find many.
So, part of the beauty of being in Keystone,
is that we can just reach directly into the lists
and run a function that will find the items for us.
We don't need to go to the GraphQL API,
or anything like that.
We can just go directly to the database,
right from our resolvers in here.
And we'll say find many where,
the user Id
is going to be equal to the sesh.ItemId.
And where the productId
is going to be equal to the productId.
And that is being passed in via the arguments, right?
That's this value right here.
So, essentially what we're doing right here is we're saying,
find me an item where the user
and the product are this.
And the reason why we're not just finding one,
is because these fields are not unique
and you cannot use find one
unless all the fields that are being used are unique.
So, here we just find an array.
And if there is one item in that array,
we'll know that that item is currently in their cart.
So, we'll throw that first item into a variable.
So, we'll restructure it,
existingCartItem is equal to allCartItems.
And what that does is it restructures the first item
of that array into a variable called existingCartItem.
And we'll say, if there is an existingCartItem,
console.log, 'this item is already in the cart
increment by one.'
And we can actually interpolate
how many items are in that cart.
So, there are already,
I need to use back ticks here, existingItem.quantity.
There are already existingItems.quantity increment by one.
And then what we'll do here from here,
is return await context.list.CartItem.updateOne,
where the Id is equal to the existingCartItem.Id.
And now the data,
is going to be updated as of quantity.
Quantity will be quantity plus one
and actually it's existingCartItem.quantity.
So, you'll see there's lots of red in here
and I'm not gonna go into all the nitty-gritty
of all the different rules of TypeScript,
because it's not necessarily a type trip course.
The reason why I didn't use TypeScript in here,
it's just that we can get really good auto completion.
So, these aren't necessarily TypeScript errors,
they are ESLint errors
that could potentially be issues down the road,
but not for what we're doing right now.
So, if they are annoying you,
you can just go to the top of the file
and put a little comment that says ESLint disable.
And that will puf!, all of your programming issues are gone.
And obviously that's maybe not the best idea,
but for the purpose of this course
and not getting too nitty-gritty into TypeScript,
I think that works just fine for what we're doing here.
So, we are returning the new CartItem,
because await will wait
for the updated CartItem to come back.
And then I guess that's number three right here.
And then form has also number four.
And then finally, if it isn't,
create a new CartItem.
So, return await context.lists.CartItem.createOne,
Where the data is the product.
And now we need to make relationships.
When you are creating a relationships in a product
it works like this.
You say product connect,
where the Id is equal to the productId.
And then the user connect,
or the Id of the user is equal to, what did we say?
Sesh.ItemId, lowercase d.
See how that still had the underline there,
because it says that's actual TypeScript error.
That's not just the linting error,
this is a TypeScript error.
ItemId does not exist,
did you mean itemId?
Oh yeah, I did.
Thank you, TypeScript.
That's really nice of you.
Wow!, all right, so, we just wrote all that code,
but we didn't test it yet.
Let's go and you got to kill the build and restart it.
And now when we try to add it with a product that exists,
go to our products,
I'm gonna grab the cooler.
I'm gonna grab the Id here
and then let's just try and run it.
And when we run it, error.
Okay, so we've got a bit of an error the first time.
They're already undefined increment by one.
Okay, I bet there is an issue
with the allCartItems.
So, let's debug this a little bit.
Will console.log, all cart item.
And we'll see what items it finds here.
So, restart, I'm gonna clear up my console,
run it again.
And here we go.
So, this is the CartItems for that item.
And it's returning three items,
which means there's three items in our cart.
This should only be returning one item,
because there should be only one product
that matches it.
So, I'm wondering if the productId
is not being passed in properly.
So, we'll go ahead and console log the productId as well.
Unfortunately this debugging is a little bit slow,
cause you got to kill the process and start it again.
But, bear with me here.
I'm gonna clear up my console, run it again.
And yeah, we get undefined.
Okay, so, Oh, look at this.
I bet it's because, did I type it as product capital ID?
I did, that's my problem.
So, we'll go back to our index
you see how I did capital ID here.
I always do this and it shouldn't be.
Identification is not two words,
so it should be lowercase d on that.
And then same thing when I pass the Id here.
And then when it is being restructured
in our addToCart function,
it's just right here.
That's where we did it properly.
So, a little bit of a goof up there.
So, I bet this will now run.
Okay, here we go.
Start, boom!, so we got the correct I'd
of the item.
We got the correct item
because there is already in the cart.
And then finally it says,
there is an error
that data got invalid none quantity.
So, we'll go back to our code here
and debug it.
So, it says if there is an existingCartItem.
So in this case, there is,
I already have it in my cart.
This is the Eddy cooler.
So, what we're doing here is we are returning it.
We take the existingCartItem quantity plus one.
So, it's telling us
that the value we're passing here is incorrect.
So, let's console log the existingCartItem.
And see if we can take a little bit of a closer look
into why that is.
Maybe this is like undefined for some reason,
clear it out, run, addToCart.
Ah, okay, I see.
It's only returning to us the Id of that CartItem.
So, just pause it there for a second to figure it out.
And this has changed in Keystone
is you have to explicitly tell it which fields you want.
So, it's resolved fields
and this is just you want the Id
and the quantity of the item that comes back
and that should fix it for us.
You see, I just ran it right here.
And it actually said there was three increment by one.
So now if we run that again,
it tells us there's four incremented by one.
There's five incremented by one.
If we go to the backend CartItems here,
should see it, there we go.
There's the Eddy cooler and there is six.
So, now if I try to add a product
that is not yet in my cart,
I think this belt is not in it.
Let's run it over here.
Go ahead and run it.
And there we go,
it says adding to cart,
but run it again,
says there's already one increment by one.
So, there should be a new item.
There we go.
Nice belt with two in it, okay, cool.
So, that's our full agile cart resolver.
Next, what we need to do,
is to actually hook this up on the front-end,
to a button so that when you click it,
it will add it to cart,
as well as re fetch the number of items
that are in the cart,
so we can display them on the front-end.